Collections.md, before:

## Collections

⬆️ [Go to main menu](README.md#laravel-tips) ⬅️ [Previous (Validation)](Validation.md) ➡️ [Next (Auth)](Auth.md)

- [Don’t Filter by NULL in Collections](#dont-filter-by-null-in-collections)
- [Use groupBy on Collections with Custom Callback Function](#use-groupby-on-collections-with-custom-callback-function)
- [Multiple Collection Methods in a Row](#multiple-collection-methods-in-a-row)
- [Calculate Sum with Pagination](#calculate-sum-with-pagination)
- [Serial no. in foreach loop with pagination](#serial-no-in-foreach-loop-with-pagination)
- [Higher order collection methods](#higher-order-collection-methods)
- 

### Don’t Filter by NULL in Collections

You can filter by NULL in Eloquent, but if you're filtering the **collection** further - filter by empty string, there's no "null" in that field anymore.

```php
// This works
$messages = Message::where('read_at is null')->get();

// Won’t work - will return 0 messages
$messages = Message::all();
$unread_messages = $messages->where('read_at is null')->count();

// Will work
$unread_messages = $messages->where('read_at', '')->count();
```

### Use groupBy on Collections with Custom Callback Function

If you want to group result by some condition which isn’t a direct column in your database, you can do that by providing a closure function.

For example, if you want to group users by day of registration, here’s the code:
```php
$users = User::all()->groupBy(function($item) {
    return $item->created_at->format('Y-m-d');
});
```

⚠️ Notice: it is done on a `Collection` class, so performed **AFTER** the results are fetched from the database.

### Multiple Collection Methods in a Row

If you query all results with `->all()` or `->get()`, you may then perform various Collection operations on the same result, it won’t query database every time.
```php
$users = User::all();
echo 'Max ID: ' . $users->max('id');
echo 'Average age: ' . $users->avg('age');
echo 'Total budget: ' . $users->sum('budget');
```

### Calculate Sum with Pagination

How to calculate the sum of all records when you have only the PAGINATED collection? Do the calculation BEFORE the pagination, but from the same query.﻿


```php
// How to get sum of post_views with pagination?
$posts = Post::paginate(10);
// This will be only for page 1, not ALL posts
$sum = $posts->sum('post_views');

// Do this with Query Builder
$query = Post::query();
// Calculate sum
$sum = $query->sum('post_views');
// And then do the pagination from the same query
$posts = $query->paginate(10);
```

### Serial no in foreach loop with pagination
We can use foreach collection items index as serial no (SL) in pagination.

```php
   ...
   <th>Serial</th>
    ...
    @foreach ($products as $product)
    <tr>
        <td>{{ $loop->index + $product->firstItem() }}</td>
        ...
    @endforeach
```
it will solve the issue of next pages(?page=2&...) index count from continue.

### Higher order collection methods

Collections have higher order methods, this are methods that can be chained , like `groupBy()` , `map()` ... Giving you a fluid syntax.  This example calculates the
price per group of products on an offer.

```php
$offer = [
        'name'  => 'offer1',
        'lines' => [
            ['group' => 1, 'price' => 10],
            ['group' => 1, 'price' => 20],
            ['group' => 2, 'price' => 30],
            ['group' => 2, 'price' => 40],
            ['group' => 3, 'price' => 50],
            ['group' => 3, 'price' => 60]
        ]
];
                
$totalPerGroup = collect($offer->lines)->groupBy('group')->map(fn($group) => $group->sum('price')); 
```

Commit message:

Add higher order collection message tip

Collections.md, after:

## Collections

⬆️ [Go to main menu](README.md#laravel-tips) ⬅️ [Previous (Validation)](Validation.md) ➡️ [Next (Auth)](Auth.md)

- [Don’t Filter by NULL in Collections](#dont-filter-by-null-in-collections)
- [Use groupBy on Collections with Custom Callback Function](#use-groupby-on-collections-with-custom-callback-function)
- [Multiple Collection Methods in a Row](#multiple-collection-methods-in-a-row)
- [Calculate Sum with Pagination](#calculate-sum-with-pagination)
- [Serial no. in foreach loop with pagination](#serial-no-in-foreach-loop-with-pagination)
- [Higher order collection methods](#higher-order-collection-methods)
- [Higher order collection message](#higher-order-collection-message)

### Don’t Filter by NULL in Collections

You can filter by NULL in Eloquent, but if you're filtering the **collection** further - filter by empty string, there's no "null" in that field anymore.

```php
// This works
$messages = Message::where('read_at is null')->get();

// Won’t work - will return 0 messages
$messages = Message::all();
$unread_messages = $messages->where('read_at is null')->count();

// Will work
$unread_messages = $messages->where('read_at', '')->count();
```

### Use groupBy on Collections with Custom Callback Function

If you want to group result by some condition which isn’t a direct column in your database, you can do that by providing a closure function.

For example, if you want to group users by day of registration, here’s the code:
```php
$users = User::all()->groupBy(function($item) {
    return $item->created_at->format('Y-m-d');
});
```

⚠️ Notice: it is done on a `Collection` class, so performed **AFTER** the results are fetched from the database.

### Multiple Collection Methods in a Row

If you query all results with `->all()` or `->get()`, you may then perform various Collection operations on the same result, it won’t query database every time.
```php
$users = User::all();
echo 'Max ID: ' . $users->max('id');
echo 'Average age: ' . $users->avg('age');
echo 'Total budget: ' . $users->sum('budget');
```

### Calculate Sum with Pagination

How to calculate the sum of all records when you have only the PAGINATED collection? Do the calculation BEFORE the pagination, but from the same query.﻿


```php
// How to get sum of post_views with pagination?
$posts = Post::paginate(10);
// This will be only for page 1, not ALL posts
$sum = $posts->sum('post_views');

// Do this with Query Builder
$query = Post::query();
// Calculate sum
$sum = $query->sum('post_views');
// And then do the pagination from the same query
$posts = $query->paginate(10);
```

### Serial no in foreach loop with pagination
We can use foreach collection items index as serial no (SL) in pagination.

```php
   ...
   <th>Serial</th>
    ...
    @foreach ($products as $product)
    <tr>
        <td>{{ $loop->index + $product->firstItem() }}</td>
        ...
    @endforeach
```
it will solve the issue of next pages(?page=2&...) index count from continue.

### Higher order collection methods

Collections have higher order methods, this are methods that can be chained , like `groupBy()` , `map()` ... Giving you a fluid syntax.  This example calculates the
price per group of products on an offer.

```php
$offer = [
        'name'  => 'offer1',
        'lines' => [
            ['group' => 1, 'price' => 10],
            ['group' => 1, 'price' => 20],
            ['group' => 2, 'price' => 30],
            ['group' => 2, 'price' => 40],
            ['group' => 3, 'price' => 50],
            ['group' => 3, 'price' => 60]
        ]
];
                
$totalPerGroup = collect($offer->lines)->groupBy('group')->map(fn($group) => $group->sum('price')); 
```

### Higher order collection message

Collections also provide support for "higher order messages", which are short-cuts for performing common actions on collections.
This example calculates the price per group of products on an offer.

```php
$offer = [
        'name'  => 'offer1',
        'lines' => [
            ['group' => 1, 'price' => 10],
            ['group' => 1, 'price' => 20],
            ['group' => 2, 'price' => 30],
            ['group' => 2, 'price' => 40],
            ['group' => 3, 'price' => 50],
            ['group' => 3, 'price' => 60]
        ]
];
                
$totalPerGroup = collect($offer['lines'])->groupBy->group->map->sum('price');
```
