README.md, before:

# IMPORTANT: March 2022

It's horrible to see what is happening now in Ukraine, as Russian army is [bombarding houses, hospitals and kindergartens](https://twitter.com/DavidCornDC/status/1501620037785997316).

Please [check out supportukrainenow.org](https://supportukrainenow.org/) for the ways how you can help people there. Spread the word.

And if you are from Russia and you are against this war, please express your protest in some way. I know you can get punished for this, but you are one of the hopes of those innocent people.

---

# Laravel Tips

Awesome Laravel tips and tricks for all artisans. PR and ideas are welcome!

An idea by [PovilasKorop](https://github.com/PovilasKorop) and [MarceauKa](https://github.com/MarceauKa).

Hey, like these tips? Also, check out my premium [Laravel courses](https://laraveldaily.com/courses?utm_source=github&utm_campaign=laravel-tips).

---

Or if you want the Chinese version:
[中文版本](https://github.com/Lysice/laravel-tips-chinese/blob/master/README-zh.md)

---
**Update 24 April 2023**: Currently there are **354 tips** divided into 14 sections.

## Table of contents

- [DB Models and Eloquent](db-models-and-eloquent.md) (98 tips)
- [Models Relations](models-relations.md) (36 tips)
- [Migrations](migrations.md) (15 tips)
- [Views](views.md) (20 tips)
- [Routing](routing.md) (33 tips)
- [Validation](validation.md) (24 tips)
- [Collections](collections.md) (8 tips)
- [Auth](auth.md) (6 tips)
- [Mail](mail.md) (7 tips)
- [Artisan](artisan.md) (9 tips)
- [Factories](factories.md) (8 tips)
- [Log and debug](log-and-debug.md) (8 tips)
- [API](api.md) (9 tips)
- [Other](other.md) (73 tips)

Commit message:

add link to spanish version

README.md, after:

# IMPORTANT: March 2022

It's horrible to see what is happening now in Ukraine, as Russian army is [bombarding houses, hospitals and kindergartens](https://twitter.com/DavidCornDC/status/1501620037785997316).

Please [check out supportukrainenow.org](https://supportukrainenow.org/) for the ways how you can help people there. Spread the word.

And if you are from Russia and you are against this war, please express your protest in some way. I know you can get punished for this, but you are one of the hopes of those innocent people.

---

# Laravel Tips

Awesome Laravel tips and tricks for all artisans. PR and ideas are welcome!

An idea by [PovilasKorop](https://github.com/PovilasKorop) and [MarceauKa](https://github.com/MarceauKa).

Hey, like these tips? Also, check out my premium [Laravel courses](https://laraveldaily.com/courses?utm_source=github&utm_campaign=laravel-tips).

---

Or if you want the Chinese version:
[中文版本](https://github.com/Lysice/laravel-tips-chinese/blob/master/README-zh.md)

Or if you want the **Spanish**  version:
[Spanish version](https://github.com/ErickMUOSD/laravel-tips-spanish)


---
**Update 24 April 2023**: Currently there are **354 tips** divided into 14 sections.

## Table of contents

- [DB Models and Eloquent](db-models-and-eloquent.md) (98 tips)
- [Models Relations](models-relations.md) (36 tips)
- [Migrations](migrations.md) (15 tips)
- [Views](views.md) (20 tips)
- [Routing](routing.md) (33 tips)
- [Validation](validation.md) (24 tips)
- [Collections](collections.md) (8 tips)
- [Auth](auth.md) (6 tips)
- [Mail](mail.md) (7 tips)
- [Artisan](artisan.md) (9 tips)
- [Factories](factories.md) (8 tips)
- [Log and debug](log-and-debug.md) (8 tips)
- [API](api.md) (9 tips)
- [Other](other.md) (73 tips)
